it's 22 GMT that's 1:00 a.m. on the Gaza
Strip at least 500 people have been
killed following an Israeli air strike
on the Baptist Hospital in Gaza which
took place just several hours ago
thousands of civilians are thought to
have been inside the hospital at the
time of the attack some patients were
seeking medical treatment and others
were trying to find a place for shelter
Dimitri medeno begins our
coverage
bodies in the hundreds scattered across
the backyard of a hospital a scene many
have described as a
massacre the result of a deadly air
strike my son that you can see here on
my phone my wife just told me he died he
was sitting with us and all of a sudden
he disappeared hundreds of families were
Sheltering in the territory of the al-
Ali Baptist Hospital displaced people
looking for shelter after their homes
were destroyed in 11 days of non-stop
bombardment we were told the Red Cross
asked the hospital to let the civilians
in which it did and suddenly rockets and
missiles started falling on all the
civilians who were there including women
and children who had their bodies
dismembered no one was
spared hospitals are protected by the
first Geneva Convention it states that
medical personnel and Facilities cannot
be attacked under any
circumstances if they strike a hospital
that means they have no limitations
they've given the green light to execute
all Palestinians it means they can shoot
us here as
well less than an hour before the air
strike Israeli Prime Minister Benyamin
Netanyahu said civilian safety in Gaza
is the responsibility of Hamas criminal
they're committing a double War crime
attacking civilians hiding behind
civilians as human Shields the entire
world should condemn it and should
support Israel in its just War this
strike comes just hours after a un
protected school was hit killing at
least six people as Israel's blockade of
Gaza continues its 2.2 million residents
remain trapped with no certain safe
place to hide from Israel's attacks
Demitri medeno Al
jazer let's bring in J Crowley who is a
former US assistant Secretary of State
and retired US Air Force Colonel he
joins us from Alexandria in Virginia PJ
thank you so much for being on the
program certainly a very fluid situation
at the moment what we do know is that US
President Joe Biden is currently on his
way to Israel and that comes after
tonight's developments in Gaza and the
bombing of a hospital just how much will
that bombing of such a critical civilian
infrastructure to have on President
Biden's arrival and diplomatic
discussions in
Israel I I think it just takes a very
difficult balancing act that the
president is trying to maintain and it
adds a new level of complexity you know
to his trip you know clearly on the one
hand he wanted to demonstrate in person
what he has said in public you know that
he supports Israel's right to
self-defense U self-defense within the
rule of law but on the other hand um he
he's trying to also you know make make
sure that um there is humanitarian
assistance and protection for the
Palestinian people and and this clearly
demonstrates that you know regardless of
who ultimately is judged to be
responsible for this tragedy that awful
things happen in war and U it's going to
be very difficult for the for the
president to navigate through this you
know very narrow path PJ how
unprecedented is such a trip by a US
president essentially to a war
zone I mean presidential visits are
normally very scripted um you spend
weeks uh in advance you know determining
you know what what we call deliverables
you know what the president's going to
do for the host what the host is going
to do for the United States you know
this was very
impromptu um and obviously now uh you've
got a very difficult awkward and tragic
situation that the president is clearly
going to have to
address diplomatic Balancing Act we've
just heard tonight PJ that Jordan has
canell a summit with the US President
Joe Biden as well as Egyptian and
Palestinian leaders in Aman planned for
Wednesday just how much of a DI
diplomatic
Steep Hill doeses he now have to climb
to get the Arab region or potentially
the broader region on
site well to be honest to you I think
that that is a mistake um you know the
president has said to Israel we have
your back and I think it was an
opportunity for president abas King
Abdullah others to say okay Mr President
you know we understand what you're
prepared to do for Israel but what are
you prepared to do to help protect you
know the Palestinian people uh who do
not support Hamas I I think it was a it
was an opportunity to demonstrate
support to the Palestinian people and in
their absence you know obviously I think
prime minister Netanyahu will very
definitely take advantage of of you know
having you know the stage and the
president to
himself okay we have to leave it there
we are having to move on PJ Crowley a
former US assistant Secretary of State
and retired US Air Force Colonel thank
you so much sir